Setting up our theme, so this is going to be the crux of this part of the course right now we have
our components and we've used style components to achieve a form of consistency, a form of reasoning
about our styles and what components use those styles.
Now we want to set up a theme.
So what we're going to do is at the source folder level, we're going to create a new folder.
Now, you may have also seen that we have some warnings from Esslin that we haven't resolved yet.
And that's completely fine because we're currently building out all of the things that we need.
Once we finish a feature, a specific feature, we shouldn't have warnings anymore and we'll deal with
them as they come.
So we want to create a folder under source called Infrastructure, and we're calling it infrastructure
because a theme is part of the infrastructure of an app.
We're trying to reason about these things in a good way.
So we're going to create a folder inside of infrastructure and we're going to call it theme.
And inside a theme, we're going to create a couple of files, first of all, we're going to create
it next year and then we're going to create a size that, yes, we're also going to create colors.
Yes.
Well, colors remain.
We're going to have a speccing duchesse.
And we're going to have a fun start.
Yes.
And all of these files together holistically will form our theme now, first and foremost, we're going
to start with colors and all of these files that I'm putting together, we're going to be linking them
in the resources of the video so you can go copy paste this code from there.
So first and foremost, we're going to need our colors.
And the colors that we need are the colors that we would consider our brand colors.
So over here, you can see a colors object.
And in this colors object, we have the brand level, theming, primary, secondary muted.
We have the UI level colors, primary, secondary, tertiary, cautionary.
I can't say that word.
Oh, such a hard word anyways.
Disabled error and success.
And then below that we have our background colors, we have our text colors.
So we have all of our colors set up.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And then we're going to go to fonts and four fonts.
What we're going to set up here is we're going to set up, first of all.
We're going to set up the fonts that the app is going to use, so for the body, we're going to use
Oswald four hundred regular and we'll set that up later for the heading.
We're going to use LoDo and for Molyneaux Space, we're going to use Oswald.
These are all Google fonts that are freely available and will be installing them down the line, but
we're setting it up already.
So the fonts that our app is going to use, body heading and space, then we're going to set up the
font Waite's.
We're going to set up regular, medium and bold.
Well looks like for our app we're going to be using both.
For regular four hundred, which is the font that we're using, medium and bold is font weight, five
hundred and seven hundred, and then we go into font sizes.
And so for font sizes, we're using the pixel based ratios because we're working with style components.
So for caption 12 pixels, 14 pixels, 16 pixels, title 20 pixels.
Then we go up the chain all the way to each one.
So we have a good amount of sizes available to us.
So our phones are set up here.
That is great.
Now, what is going on specifically here?
Is there an error in this file or what's going on?
And so.
With that, OK, it seemed that there was a small speccing error in here, so then we go to sizes and
then we're going to talk about, well, what kind of size is small?
Well, when we talk about sizes, we're just talking about the sizes that are available to us, so eight
pixels, 16 pixel, 32 pixel, sixty four pixel and hundred twenty eight pixel.
So these are sizes that we can use to size various things, will just keep them around, it's useful
to have that consistency.
And then last but not least, we have spacing.
And for spacing, we're going to have both Lane Heights.
And we're going to have space, so these are spacing's that you can put in between things.
So we'll start at zero space four, eight, 16, 32, and so we increment for consistency sake.
And then in the index file, in the index file is where we're going to put our theme together.
So in the index file, what we need to do is we need to.
We need to import the colors from the colors file over here.
We need to import the space in the line from the spacing file.
We need to import the sizes from the sizes file, and then we'll import the fonts.
The font waits in the font sizes from fonts.
And so we'll put our theme object together right here.
So we're exporting the theme that contains all of these objects.
And that's going to allow us to put together our theme in the theme provider that will be supplying
at the app level.
So with all of this and you can reach in the resources to go get all of these specific pieces and you
can play around with them.
You can play around what you want the font sizes to be.
You can play around with what you want your color palette to be.
I recommend playing around with the color palette if you want.
It's always a good idea to put together the colors and the color scheme that fits you.
OK, so now that we have our theme ready to go, what we need to do is now put it all together inside
of the app.
So inside of the app is what we're going to do here is we're going to wrap our app with a theme provider,
theme provider, and that is going to wrap the restaurant screen.
Right.
And it's going to take a theme object that's going to be equal to theme.
Now, where is this all coming from?
Well, you're going to import theme provider.
From styled components native.
And you're going to import the theme import theme.
From the source slash.
Infrastructure theme, and since there's an index file there, we should be good to go, and now we
have our theme provider set up and this will allow us to basically utilize the theme in our app.
So how do we do this?
Well, if we go look at our colors, if we look at UI, the primary color is two six two six two six.
So if we go to features and then the restaurant info card and we said instead of red over here, well,
what if we wanted props and we said props that theme that colors that.
Primary.
Now it says invalid color props supplied to stylesheet generated fallowed color props are the following.
Now, why is this the case?
First of all, let's wrap this.
And let's go look at what exactly is going on here.
So in our theme object that we're importing from source infrastructure theme, we have our colors object.
And in our colors object.
Oh, it's on UI, so I'm referencing it wrong.
So if we go over here, it's props, colors, UI thought primary and that will give us the proper placing.
So now you can see it's black.
But what if we chose error, well, then it should go back to red, right?
So let's go try that out if we try out error.
What will happen here?
Well, now it's red, and if we try success, now it's green.
And if we put it back the primary, now it's black.
So we have this ability to switch up our entire UI.
Based on the theme that we just set up, that's amazing.